								After Twenty Years by O. Henry
The policeman on the beat moved up the avenue impressively. The impressiveness was
habitual and not for show, for spectators were few. The time was barely 10 o'clock at night, but
chilly gusts of wind with a taste of rain in them had well nigh depeopled the streets.

Trying doors as he went, twirling his club with many intricate and artful movements, turning
now and then to cast his watchful eye adown the pacific thoroughfare, the officer, with his
stalwart form and slight swagger, made a fine picture of a guardian of the peace. The vicinity
was one that kept early hours. Now and then you might see the lights of a cigar store or of an
all-night lunch counter, but the majority of the doors belonged to business places that had long
since been closed.



"Twenty years ago tonight," said the man, "I dined here at 'Big Joe' Brady's with Jimmy Wells,
my best chum, and the finest chap in the world. He and I were raised here in New York, just like
two brothers, together. I was eighteen and Jimmy was twenty. The next morning I was to start
for the West to make my fortune. You couldn't have dragged Jimmy out of New York; he
thought it was the only place on earth. Well, we agreed that night that we would meet here
again exactly twenty years from that date and time, no matter what our conditions might be or
from what distance we might have to come. We figured that in twenty years each of us ought
to have our destiny worked out and our fortunes made, whatever they were going to be."
"It sounds pretty interesting," said the policeman. "Rather a long time between meets, though,
it seems to me. Haven't you heard from your friend since you left?"

"Well, yes, for a time we corresponded," said the other. "But after a year or two we lost track of
each other. You see, the West is a pretty big proposition, and I kept hustling around over it
pretty lively. But I know Jimmy will meet me here if he's alive, for he always was the truest,
stanchest old chap in the world. He'll never forget. I came a thousand miles to stand in this door
to-night, and it's worth it if my old partner turns up."
The waiting man pulled out a handsome watch, the lids of it set with small diamonds.
"Three minutes to ten," he announced. "It was exactly ten o'clock when we parted here at the
restaurant door."
"Did pretty well out West, didn't you?" asked the policeman.